---
id: 21
title: Best Practices
---
# [ADP-21] Best Practices

## Design Thinking

It is not uncommon that there’s still something not covered by the initial and developing principles. It could be a new standard raised after writing the principles or a new requirement that we don’t anticipate at this moment.

For example, OpenAPI itself does not describe how to manipulate asynchronous requests, which is covered by AsyncAPI. Also, if one day we choose to support REST and GraphQL simultaneously, even though there’s no common standard for GraphQL, it’s still possible to brainstorm together to find the best practices from RFCs or materials available on the web. Before inventing a new solution, try to determine if there’s an industry standard or common convention to resolve your problem or meet your requirement.

Another aspect, beyond API design, involves the implementation details. The API guidelines themselves do not dictate how to implement a standard, but since it’s a standard, many developers have already surveyed and tried it out. Look for packages, libraries, and discussions about the implementation. Evaluate whether these solutions are suitable for your product/application before you decide to write a new library for the standard.

## Guidance

- SHOULD survey best practices for industry standards or common conventions.
- SHOULD design and request for comments (RFC internally) if you think the standard does not fulfill your requirement, and aim to make this a best practice.
- SHOULD document your internal RFC.
