---
id: 602
title: CloudEvents
polishing: true
---
# [ADE-602] CloudEvents

## Overview

This specification aims to guide the design and implementation of RESTful API events to ensure compatibility with the CNCF CloudEvent standard. CNCF CloudEvent is a lightweight specification for describing event data to promote interoperability in event-driven systems. The use of "SHOULD" in this specification indicates a strong recommendation, though exceptions may be permissible in certain situations.

## Context Attributes

CloudEvents defines a set of metadata to describe events, known as context attributes. These attributes fall into two categories:

- Core Attributes
- Extension Attributes

### Core Attributes vs Extension Attributes

- **Core Attributes**:
  - Standard fields defined by the CloudEvents specification
  - Include required attributes (e.g., `specversion`, `id`, `source`, `type`) and optional attributes (e.g., `datacontenttype`, `subject`)
  - Common to all CloudEvents implementations
  :::info
  Core attributes details please refer to
  - [ADE-603: Event Type](603.md)
  - [ADE-604: Event Source](604.md)
  - [ADE-605: Media Type](605.md)
  :::

- **Extension Attributes**:
  - Allow adding custom metadata to events
  - Not part of the standard specification, but follow specific naming and typing rules
  - Used to meet requirements for specific use cases or domains
  :::info
  Extension attributes details please refer to
  - [ADE-606: Event Testing](606.md)
  - [ADE-607: Event Tracing](607.md)
  - [ADE-608: Temporary Event](608.md)
  - [ADE-609: Event Partitioning](609.md)
  - [ADE-610: Event Ordering](610.md)
  - [ADE-611: Event Severity](611.md)
  - [ADE-612: Event Recorded Timestamp](612.md)
  :::

## Roles

- Event Producers
- Event Consumers
- Event Routers

## Guidance

- All RESTful API events SHOULD adhere to the CNCF CloudEvent standard structure, including core attributes and appropriate extension attributes.
- MUST Follow [CloudEvents Type Convention](603.md)
- MUST Specify Media Type if Available**: See [CloudEvents Media Type Specification](605.md)
- SHOULD Follow [CloudEvents Source Convention](604.md)
- CloudEvents Field Principles:
  - MUST Specify `specversion` as `1.0`
  - MUST Provide a Unique ID: Ensure the ID is unique within the entire system.
  - MUST Provide Time: Specify the occurrence time or the current time (MUST be consistent across the system). When provided, use the RFC3339 date format. See [CloudEvents Time Specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/spec.md#time)
  - SHOULD Provide Subject: Include a subject regarding the event.

        :::tip
        💡 There's no strict rule for `subject` in the original CloudEvents spec. It could be a non-empty string. Document what you'd put in the subject well.
        :::

## Examples

### Example 1: Basic CloudEvent

```http
Content-Type: application/cloudevents+json

{
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "type": "com.example.user.created",
  "source": "/mycontext",
  "id": "A234-1234-1234",
  "time": "2020-08-14T14:48:09Z",
  "datacontenttype": "application/json",
  "data": {
    "object": {
      "id": "123",
      "name": "Sample Object"
    }
  }
}
```

This example represents a basic CloudEvent indicating that an object was created. It includes standard attributes such as `specversion`, `type`, `source`, `id`, `time`, `datacontenttype`, and `data`.

### Example 2: CloudEvent with Extensions

```json
{
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "type": "com.example.file.uploaded",
  "source": "/mycontext",
  "id": "B234-1234-1234",
  "time": "2020-08-14T14:48:09Z",
  "subject": "user/123/file/456",
  "datacontenttype": "application/json",
  "data": {
    "file": {
      "id": "456",
      "name": "example.txt",
      "size": "1024"
    }
  },
  "traceparent": "00-abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234abcd1234-01",
  "tracestate": "congo=congospecificinfo"
}
```

This example extends the basic CloudEvent by including additional attributes like `traceparent` and `tracestate`. These provide more context about the event and include tracing information to support observability.

### Example 3: Transmitting CloudEvent over HTTP

```http
POST /events HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Content-Type: application/cloudevents+json
Content-Length: 400

{
  "specversion": "1.0",
  "type": "com.example.user.updated",
  "source": "/mycontext",
  "id": "C234-1234-1234",
  "time": "2020-08-14T14:48:09Z",
  "datacontenttype": "application/json",
  "data": {
    "user": {
      "id": "123",
      "name": "Jane Doe",
      "email": "jane.doe@example.com"
    }
  }
}
```

In this example, a CloudEvent is transmitted over HTTP using the POST method. The request header specifies `Content-Type: application/cloudevents+json`, and the request body contains the event data.

## Reference

- <https://cloudevents.io/>
  - <https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/spec.md>
- <https://www.refactory-project.com/application-events-and-domain-events/>

### Design References

- <https://api.otto.de/portal/guidelines/event-guidelines/format>
