---
id: 604
title: CloudEvents source
polishing: true
---

# [ADE-604] CloudEvents source

## Summary

This document provides guidance on how to properly use the `source` field in CloudEvents.

## Context

The `source` field in CloudEvents identifies the context in which an event occurred. It's crucial for uniquely identifying events and their origins.

## Decision

We will adopt the following guidelines for the `source` field:

1. MUST follow the CloudEvents spec convention: `source + id` must be unique.
2. SHOULD use UUID, URI, URL, or URN for the source field and maintain consistency within the same application/product.
3. SHOULD follow this preference order: absolute URI > URI reference > URN > UUID.

## Details

### Format Preferences

1. Absolute URI (Most Preferred)
   Use when the event source has a regular API endpoint.

   ```json
   {
     "specversion": "1.0",
     "source": "https://api.the-app.com/users/{uuid}"
   }
   ```

2. Relative URI
   Use when the event source is not exposed at a specific API endpoint.

   ```json
   {
     "specversion": "1.0",
     "source": "//example.com/applications/{application-id}"
   }
   ```

   or

   ```json
   {
     "specversion": "1.0",
     "source": "/users/{uuid}"
   }
   ```

3. URN
   Provides a programmatic way to identify resources by category. See [URN naming convention principle](82.md).

4. UUID (Least Preferred)

### Special Cases

- For events about collections (resources), the source MAY be the collection itself.
  Example (for `created` / `deleted` events):

  ```json
  {
    "specversion": "1.0",
    "type": "com.example.event",
    "source": "/users",
    "id": "A234-1234-1234",
    "time": "2024-07-10T08:42:00Z",
    "datacontenttype": "application/json",
    "data": {
      "message": "New user collection created"
    }
  }
  ```

- For events about single resources, the source MAY be the unique resource.
  Example (for `updated` events):

  ```json
  {
    "specversion": "1.0",
    "type": "com.example.event",
    "source": "/users/123",
    "id": "A234-1234-1234",
    "time": "2024-07-10T08:42:00Z",
    "datacontenttype": "application/json",
    "data": {
      "message": "User profile updated"
    }
  }
  ```

## Consequences

- Improved consistency in `source` field usage across the system.
- Better event traceability and origin identification.
- Potential need to update existing event producers to comply with these guidelines.

## References

- [CloudEvents Specification](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/spec.md#source-1)

    > from <https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/spec.md#source-1>
    >
    >
    > **source**
    >
    > - Type: `URI-reference`
    > - Description: Identifies the context in which an event happened. Often this will
    include information such as the type of the event source, the organization
    publishing the event or the process that produced the event. The exact syntax and
    semantics behind the data encoded in the URI is defined by the event producer.
    >
    >     Producers MUST ensure that `source` + `id` is unique for each distinct event.
    >
    >     An application MAY assign a unique `source` to each distinct producer, which
    makes it easy to produce unique IDs since no other producer will have the same
    source. The application MAY use UUIDs, URNs, DNS authorities or an
    application-specific scheme to create unique `source` identifiers.
    >
    >     A source MAY include more than one producer. In that case the producers MUST
    collaborate to ensure that `source` + `id` is unique for each distinct event.
    >
    > - Constraints:
    >   - REQUIRED
    >   - MUST be a non-empty URI-reference
    >   - An absolute URI is RECOMMENDED
    > - Examples
    >   - Internet-wide unique URI with a DNS authority.
    >     - `https://github.com/cloudevents`
    >     - `mailto:cncf-wg-serverless@lists.cncf.io`
    >   - Universally-unique URN with a UUID:
    >     - `urn:uuid:6e8bc430-9c3a-11d9-9669-0800200c9a66`
    >   - Application-specific identifiers
    >     - `/cloudevents/spec/pull/123`
    >     - `/sensors/tn-1234567/alerts`
    >     - `1-555-123-4567`
