---
id: 2
title: ADP Guideline
---
# [ADP-2] ADP Guideline

## Guidance

- Each ADP SHOULD fall into specific current ADP category unless there’s need to create a new one.
- Each ADP SHOULD include code examples to illustrate key concepts and provide practical usage scenarios.
- Each ADP SHOULD be written in American English to maintain consistency across documentation.
- Each ADP MAY have a Traditional Chinese version to accommodate non-English readers.
- Each ADP SHOULD be in Markdown format for ease of editing, readability, and compatibility with various tools.
- Each ADP **SHOULD NOT** use H1 headings (`#`) because the title already occupies the H1 level.
- Each ADP SHOULD clearly specify its category from the predefined list to ensure proper organization and easy navigation.
- Each ADP SHOULD attach CHANGELOG field once ADP is switching from DRAFT to RELEASED.

## ADP Categories

Currently, we have divided the ADPs into the following categories:

- **ADP Itself**: Documentation and guidelines related to the ADP framework and its components.
- **Engineering Principles**: Core engineering principles and best practices that guide the development process.
- **HTTP Basics**: Fundamental concepts of HTTP, including methods, status codes, and headers.
- **REST Basics**: Principles and practices for designing RESTful APIs, including resource modeling and URI design.
- **HTTP Semantics**: Detailed explanations of HTTP semantics and how they apply to API design and implementation.
- **JSON Principles**: Guidelines for structuring JSON data, including naming conventions and data types.
- **Error Design**: Best practices for designing and handling errors in APIs, including error codes and response formats.
- **Event Design**: Principles for designing event-driven architectures, including event types and payload structures.
- **Naming Conventions**: Standardized naming conventions for various elements in the API, such as resources, parameters, and fields.
- **Application-Specific Conventions**: Custom guidelines and conventions specific to the application domain or project requirements.

These categories are subject to change and reorganization as we continuously improve and expand our documentation framework.
