---
id: 142
title: X-Request-Id
state: reviewing
phase: 1
---

# [ADE-142] X-Request-Id

## Overview

This document establishes guidelines for using the `X-Request-Id` header in our system to track requests between clients and servers. The use of `X-Request-Id` aims to improve traceability, enhance debugging processes, and ensure consistent tracking of requests in distributed services and microservices.

## Guidance

### Definition

`X-Request-Id` is an HTTP header used to carry a unique identifier for each request. Although not a standard, it is a widely adopted convention. This identifier allows tracking and associating logs across different services and systems that handle the request.

### Requirements

- Clients SHOULD generate a unique `X-Request-Id` for each outgoing request.
  - If the client does not generate an `X-Request-Id`, the first server receiving the request SHOULD generate a unique `X-Request-Id` and include it in the response and any subsequent requests.
- Any service receiving a request with `X-Request-Id` (including microservices) SHOULD propagate this header with the same value to any downstream services or components involved in processing the request.
  - Once an `X-Request-Id` is set for a specific request flow, it must not be changed.
- All services (including microservices) SHOULD include `X-Request-Id` in their logs. This allows associating logs across different services, making it easier to trace the entire lifecycle of a request.
  - Monitoring and alerting systems should be configured to use `X-Request-Id` for tracking and debugging.
- `X-Request-Id` SHOULD be a UUID (Universally Unique Identifier) to ensure the uniqueness of all requests.
  - For example: `X-Request-Id: 123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000`

## Implementation Considerations

- Ensure that load balancers and API Gateways are configured to retain the `X-Request-Id` header.

## Design Considerations

There are some alternative custom headers, such as `X-Flow-Id` and `X-Correlation-Id`, but they are less common, so we do not consider them here. See usage statistics:

- [X-Request-Id Usage Statistics](https://webtechsurvey.com/response-header/x-request-id)
- [X-Flow-Id Usage Statistics](https://webtechsurvey.com/response-header/x-flow-id)
- [X-Correlation-Id Usage Statistics](https://webtechsurvey.com/response-header/x-correlation-id)

## References

- [List of HTTP Header Fields (Wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_header_fields)
- [X-Request-Id Usage Statistics (Web Technology Surveys)](https://webtechsurvey.com/response-header/x-request-id)
- [Distributed Tracing in Microservices (OpenTelemetry)](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/observability-primer/#distributed-traces)
