---
id: 707
title: Date-time and Time Data
---

# [ADE-707] Date-time and Time Data

## Guidance

- All date-time and time values exchanged between clients and servers MUST strictly adhere to the RFC 3339 format. This requirement ensures that the date-time representations are unambiguous, consistent, and interoperable across different systems and platforms.
  - All APIs MUST return date-time and time values in RFC 3339 format in their responses.
  - All APIs that accept date-time and time inputs MUST accept values in RFC 3339 format.
- APIs MAY use format including microsecond precision when needed.

## RFC 3339 Format Overview

RFC 3339 is a profile of the ISO 8601 standard for date and time representations. It defines a clear and unambiguous format for date-time values, which includes the following components:

1. **Date**: A full-date in the form `YYYY-MM-DD`
2. **Time**: A time of day in the form `hh:mm:ss`
3. **Time Zone**: A time-offset from UTC in the form `±hh:mm` or the literal `Z` for UTC

### Example

An example of an RFC 3339 date-time string is:

```http
2024-07-13T14:23:55Z
```

This represents July 13, 2024 at 14:23:55 UTC.

### Detailed Breakdown

- **Date**: `2024-07-13`
- **Time**: `14:23:55`
- **Time Zone**: `Z` (UTC)

### Optional Fractional Seconds

RFC 3339 allows for the optional inclusion of fractional seconds to a precision of up to nanoseconds. An example with milliseconds:

```http
2024-07-13T14:23:55.123Z
```

### Time Zone Offsets

When specifying a time zone offset, it is crucial to include the offset in hours and minutes:

```http
2024-07-13T14:23:55+02:00
```

This represents July 13, 2024 at 14:23:55 with a two-hour offset ahead of UTC.

## Design Rationale

Typically, timestamps are used to describe specific times, but they may be in units of seconds or milliseconds, and cannot explicitly indicate time zone information. Additionally, ISO-8601 defines a basic time format, but its regulation of time is relatively loose. Therefore, our standard is to adopt the more stringent RFC 3339.

## References

- [RFC 3339 - Date and Time on the Internet: Timestamps](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339)
- [ISO 8601 - Date and time format](https://www.iso.org/iso-8601-date-and-time-format.html)
