---
id: 755
title: OpenAPI operationId
---
# [ADP-755] OpenAPI: operationId

## Overview

In the development and maintenance of APIs, especially when adhering to the OpenAPI Specification (OAS), providing a clear and consistent `operationId` for each operation is highly recommended. This practice enhances the usability, maintainability, and documentation quality of the API.

### What is `operationId`?

The `operationId` is a unique identifier for an operation within an OpenAPI document. It is used to identify a specific operation, allowing for better management and reference in client libraries, code generation tools, and documentation.

### Importance of `operationId`

1. **Uniqueness**: Each `operationId` must be unique across the entire OpenAPI document. This uniqueness prevents conflicts and ambiguities when referencing operations in code generation and documentation.
2. **Human Readability**: A well-chosen `operationId` should be descriptive and convey the purpose of the operation. This makes it easier for developers to understand and work with the API.
3. **Code Generation**: Tools that generate client libraries or server stubs from an OpenAPI document use `operationId` to create method names. Consistent `operationId` values ensure that the generated code is intuitive and aligns with the intended functionality.
4. **Documentation**: High-quality API documentation often includes `operationId` to provide clear and direct references to operations. This improves the developer experience and facilitates better communication.

## Guidance

- SHOULD provide operationId for each API endpoint in OpenAPI document.
- MUST use a consistent naming convention across the API. This principle gives `camelCase` recommandation.
- SHOULD choose names that describe the action performed by the operation. For example, `getUser`, `createOrder`, and `deleteProduct` clearly indicate the operations' purposes.
- MUST avoid redundant prefixes or suffixes that do not add meaningful information. For instance, `getUser` is preferred over `userGet`.
- SHOULD ensure the `operationId` reflects the context of the operation within the API. For example, in an API managing a library, `borrowBook` and `returnBook` provide clear context.
    
    <aside>
    💡 If you have different endpoint for different `audience` but with the same semantic, you MAY describe it as `getUserForPublicExternal` and `getUserForComponentInternal` to avoid collision.
    
    </aside>
    

## Example

Here is an example of an OpenAPI document snippet with properly defined `operationId` values:

```yaml
paths:
  /users:
    get:
      summary: Retrieve a list of users
      operationId: getUsers
      responses:
        '200':
          description: A list of users
  /users/{id}:
    get:
      summary: Retrieve a user by ID
      operationId: getUserById
      parameters:
        - name: id
          in: path
          required: true
          schema:
            type: string
      responses:
        '200':
          description: A user object
  /orders:
    post:
      summary: Create a new order
      operationId: createOrder
      requestBody:
        content:
          application/json:
            schema:
              $ref: '#/components/schemas/Order'
      responses:
        '201':
          description: Order created
```

### Conclusion

Including an `operationId` in your OpenAPI specification is a best practice that greatly enhances the clarity, usability, and maintainability of your API. By following the guidelines and best practices outlined above, you can ensure that your API is well-documented, easy to navigate, and developer-friendly.
