---
id: 20
title: Engineering Principles
overview: true
---
# [ADE-20] Engineering Principles

:::info reviewing phase 1
This article needs more references and practical content.
:::

API First is one of our core engineering principles. This document outlines API First and several related or worth-mentioning engineering principles.

## Principle List

### API First

API First is a development approach that prioritizes the design and development of APIs before implementing the underlying systems. Key aspects include:

- Designing APIs before writing any code
- Using API description formats like OpenAPI (Swagger)
- Ensuring consistency across all APIs
- Facilitating parallel development of front-end and back-end systems
- Using API testing and validation

See [ADE-22](22) for more details.

### DevOps and Continuous Integration/Continuous Deployment (CI/CD)

DevOps practices and CI/CD pipelines support API First by:

- Automating API testing and validation
- Enabling rapid iteration and deployment of API changes
- Facilitating consistent environments across development, testing, and production

### Documentation as Code

Treating documentation as code aligns well with API First:

- Maintaining API documentation alongside code
- Automatically generating and updating documentation from API specifications
- Ensuring documentation stays current with API changes

### Security by Design

Integrating security into the API design process:

- Implementing proper authentication and authorization mechanisms
- Ensuring data privacy and protection
- Conducting regular security audits of APIs

### Versioning and Backward Compatibility

See [ADE-24](24) for more details.

### Developer Experience (DX)

See [ADE-23](23) for more details.

### Adopt Best Practices

See [ADE-21](21) for more details.

## Guidance

- Teams SHOULD properly incorporate these principles into their development workflows, ensuring that API design and development are prioritized throughout the software development lifecycle.
- These principles SHOULD be regularly reviewed and updated to reflect evolving best practices, technologies, and team experiences. Feedback and suggestions for improvements are encouraged from all team members.
