---
id: 355
title: Request with Preference
---
# [ADP-355] Request with Preference

## Overview

`Prefer` is a request-only header to tell the server the Preference from the client.

### Standard preferences

- `return=minimal`, `return=representation`
    - The `return=minimal` preference requests that the server returns the minimal response necessary, potentially reducing the data transferred.
    - The `return=representation` preference requests that the server includes the full representation of the resource in the response.
- `respond-async`
    - This is used to indicate that the client prefers an asynchronous response.
- wait
    - This is used to indicate the maximum time the client is willing to wait for a response.
- handling
    - This preference signals how the server should handle certain aspects of the request.
- depth-noroot
    - This is used to request a response that includes information about the resource's depth without the root element.
- safe
    - This preference indicates that the client prefers safe operations that do not cause any side effects.

### Benefits

- **Efficiency**: Using the `Prefer` header can reduce bandwidth and processing time by allowing clients to specify their preferences for the response format.
- **Flexibility**: Clients can tailor their requests based on their current needs, improving the overall user experience.
- **Scalability**: Servers can handle requests more efficiently by delivering only the necessary data, which can be particularly beneficial in high-load scenarios.

### Custom Preference

Custom preferences allow clients to define specific behaviors or response formats that are not covered by standard preferences. These preferences can be tailored to unique application requirements and ensure more precise control over the server's response.

The syntax of preference is in this form

```jsx
Prefer: foo=value, bar
```

The key should be in kebab-case.

The value is optional; if the preference is design to have a value, it should be enumerable.

### Example of Custom Preference

```jsx
Prefer: handling=strict, timezone=Asia/Taipei
```

<aside>
💡 There’s no standard header for timezone based request. Add it in custom preference is an option.

</aside>

### Difference from content negotiation

Content negotiation(Accept and Accept-*) could result an error if the negotiation fails, the server might return 406 Not Acceptable.

Also, they cover different scopes.

## Guidance

- SHOULD respect Request with Preference
- MUST document if your API supports Preference
- MUST return with `Preferrence-Applifed` header to inform the client the preference is accepted.
    
    ```jsx
    PATCH /my-document HTTP/1.1
    Host: example.org
    Content-Type: application/example-patch
    Prefer: return=representation
    
    [{"op": "add", "path": "/a", "value": 1}]
    
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    Preference-Applied: return=representation
    Content-Location: /my-document
    
    {"a": 1}
    ```
    
- MUST NOT return errors if there’s no relevant action for the client's preference.
- SHOULD document customized preference in your API document and describe how the server response respect the preference.
- [DRAFT] SHOULD register custom preference in internal API portal.
- SHOULD re-use custom preference for the requirement before inventing new one.

## Example

Here is an example of how the `Prefer` header can be used in an HTTP request:

```jsx
POST /robots/{robot-id}/move HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Prefer: return=minimal
```

```jsx
HTTP/1.1 202 Accepted
```

In this example, the client requests that the server return the minimal response necessary, potentially reducing the amount of data transferred.

---

Another example,

```jsx
POST /robots/{robot-id}/stop HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Prefer: respond-async
```

In this example, the client requests that the server process the request asynchronously, allowing the client to continue without waiting for the full response.

## Reference

- https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7240
- [https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8144.html](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8144.html)
- https://www.iana.org/assignments/http-parameters/http-parameters.xhtml#preferences

### Design Reference

[https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest/pull/3024](https://github.com/PostgREST/postgrest/pull/3024)
