---
id: 364
title: Custom Header Fields Design
---
# [ADP-364] Custom Header/Fields Design

### Overview

When designing custom headers for HTTP, it's essential to follow best practices to ensure consistency, clarity, and future-proofing. One critical guideline is to avoid using the "X-" prefix in custom header names.

### Background

The "X-" prefix was traditionally used to indicate non-standard or experimental headers. However, this practice has been deprecated for several reasons:

1. **IETF Recommendations**: The Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) has officially recommended against using the "X-" prefix for new headers in RFC 6648, published in June 2012. The rationale includes avoiding the creation of de facto standards that may eventually need to be standardized, which could lead to conflicts or redundancy.
2. **Future Compatibility**: Using "X-" can imply that a header is temporary or experimental, which may not be the case. As custom headers become integral parts of an application, the "X-" prefix may mislead developers about the header's permanence and importance.
3. **Standardization**: If a custom header becomes widely adopted and is later standardized, the "X-" prefix will need to be removed, causing potential backward compatibility issues.

### Guidance

- **SHOULD NOT** use the "X-" prefix for custom header names.
    - Instead, use clear, descriptive names that convey the purpose and usage of the header.
- **Descriptive Naming**:
    - SHOULD choose header names that are meaningful and self-explanatory.
    - For example, use `Client-Request-ID` instead of `X-Client-Request-ID`.
- SHOULD maintain consistency in header naming conventions across the application.
    - Follow a pattern that matches the application's overall naming conventions for readability and maintainability.
- SHOULD provide thorough documentation for all custom headers.
    - Include descriptions, expected values, and examples to aid developers in understanding and using the headers correctly.
- SHOULD evaluate existing standard headers before creating a custom one.
    - If an appropriate standard header exists, use it instead of creating a new custom header.

### Example

DON’T

```jsx
X-User-Role: admin
```

DO

```jsx
User-Role: admin
```

## Reference

- https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6648
