---
id: 367
title: HTTP Profile
---
# [ADP-367] HTTP Profile

## Overview

In the context of API design, clear communication of resource constraints, semantics, and conventions is critical. RFC 6906 introduces the "profile" link relation type, which allows API designers to convey additional semantics beyond those described by the media type alone. This guideline outlines the best practices and recommendations for using the "profile" link relation in API design.

## Guidance

- APIs with `audience≥PARTNER_EXTERNAL` SHOULD use the "profile" link relation to indicate that a resource representation conforms to one or more profiles.
    - Profiles provide additional semantics, constraints, and conventions beyond those described by the media type, enhancing the clarity and interoperability of the API.
- Profiles SHOULD be clearly defined and documented. Documentation SHOULD include the following:
- A unique identifier (URI) for the profile.
- A description of the additional semantics, constraints, and conventions imposed by the profile.
- When applicable, the "profile" link relation SHOULD be included in HTTP headers to convey profile information. For example:
    
    ```
    Link: <http://example.com/profiles/resource-profile>; rel="profile"
    ```
    
- The "profile" link relation SHOULD be embedded within hypermedia formats (e.g., JSON, HTML) to indicate that a specific resource conforms to a profile. For example:
    
    ```json
    {
      "name": "Sample Resource",
      "description": "This is a sample resource.",
      "_links": {
        "profile": {
          "href": "http://example.com/profiles/sample-resource"
        }
      }
    }
    ```
    
- Profiles SHOULD be versioned to accommodate changes and improvements over time. The profile URI SHOULD include version information when applicable. For example:
    
    ```
    Link: <http://example.com/profiles/resource-profile/v1.0>; rel="profile"
    ```
    
- Profiles SHOULD be designed to promote interoperability between different systems. They SHOULD specify validation rules to ensure that resource representations conform to the profile.
- When updating profiles, care SHOULD be taken to maintain backward compatibility. Deprecated elements SHOULD be clearly documented, and clients SHOULD be given ample time to transition to new versions.
- [SHOULD use OpenAPI schema as profile basis](762.md).

## Reference

- https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6906

### Design reference

- [https://api.otto.de/portal/guidelines/r000065](https://api.otto.de/portal/guidelines/r000065)
