---
id: 81
title: MIME type naming convention
---
# [ADP-81] MIME type naming convention

## Guidance

- SHOULD follow naming convention as
    
    ```jsx
    application/vnd.vvtk.{applicationId}.{resourceType}[.{modifier}][.{versioning}]+json
    ```
    

### applicationId

- SHOULD use/register the same applicationId in the internal API portal(TBD).

### resourceType

- SHOULD be the same as resource type name in singular form.
    
    ```jsx
    GET https://{ALIVE-APP-DOMAIN/users
    
    200
    Content-Type: application/vnd.vvtk.alive-app.user.json
    ```
    

### modifier

- The `modifier` part is optional.
- This is used to customize the resource if necessary. For example, sometimes we don’t need the full content of a resource; use the modifier to indicate we need a simpler format.
    
    ```jsx
    applicatio/vnd.vvtk.alive-app3.user.simple.v1+json
    ```
    
    Please note that there’s no common naming for the modifier, you need to make it clean and human-understandable. MUST document the usage in the API document.
    

### versioning

- The `versioning` part is optional.
- MAY NOT provide versioning while your API audience is less than `COMPANY_INTENRAL`.
- SHOULD provide versioning while your API audience is greater than `COMPANY_INTERNAL`.
- For `COMPANY_INTERNAL` audience, SHOULD consider your strategy while you are making BREAKING change to the resource. Email to developer groups is an option.
- The versioning should follow semver.

## Design thinking

Since we define that most of our API response is in JSON format, it’s common to return Content-Type: application/json at most cases.

To provide the custom MIME type with convention, we don’t need to guess the resource type from the fields of the JSON nor the request URL. Also it provides a way to control the versioning based on resources.

### JSON definition collision issues

It also gives us a way to distinguish the type for the same entity type designed by different teams in the company.

```jsx
application/vnd.vvtk.application1.user.v1+json
application/vnd.vvtk.application2.user.v1+json
```

The design purpose of such a long name: different team in the company is expected to design different object schema for the same resource type; so it would be a problem to understand `application/vnd.vendor.user+json` if more than one API returns this media type. If you have strong confidence it would not conflict, you MAY be able to provide `application/vnd.vendor.user+json` and drive all other teams in the company to follow(or avoid) this mime type.

Notice: RFC requires us to register vendor to IANA but we don’t register yet. It’s not a good practice to provide custom vendor with `x-` prefix.

The design of convention somewhat being aligned to URN convention. Consider to modify them both at the same time if necessary.

## MIME type versioning with URL versioning

It seems to be a collision with URL versioning, but there’s use case we could do it both to provide wider flexibility.

- MAY use them both or use only one of them to versioning the resource.
- SHOULD follow the same versioning strategy if only take one of them.

## Content negotiation about versioning

### The client specify common json format

```jsx
Accept: application/json
```

- SHOULD return custom json MIME type if designed

```jsx
200 OK
Content-Type: application/vnd.vvtk.alive-app.user.v2+json
```

### The client does not specify versioning

```jsx
Accept: application/vnd.vvtk.alive-app.user+json
```

- SHOULD return latest version of the resource

```jsx
Content-Type: application/vnd.vvtk.alive-app.user.v3+json
```

### The client specify the versioning

```jsx
Accept: application/vnd.vvtk.alive-app+v1.user+json
```

- SHOULD return the expected resource with the specified versioning if supported

```jsx
200 OK
Content-Type: application/vnd.vvtk.alive-app+v1.user+json
```

- SHOULD return 406 Not Acceptable if the specified versioning does not exist

```jsx
406 Not Acceptable
```

## Reference

- [https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6838](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6838)

### Design References

- https://developers.whispir.com/1f256b49f0100-using-json-and-xml-headers
