---
id: 306
title: URI design patterns
---
# [ADP-306] URI design patterns

## Overview

Designing URNs for a new API can be challenging. This guide aims to provide clear patterns to follow, ensuring consistency and readability. It is a living document and may be improved over time. Developers are encouraged to share examples of effective URN designs they have encountered to help refine these guidelines.

## Guidance

- [DRAFT] SHOULD follow the following design patterns
- The developers MAY propose more elegant URI design samples

## Patterns

### Pattern 1: Collection-Based

**Base URN for collections**:

```json
/{resources}
```

```json
GET /users HTTP/1.1
```

### Pattern 1.1: Specific Resource-Based

**URN for accessing a specific resource within a collection**:

```bash
/{resources}/{resource-id}
```

```json
GET /users/12345 HTTP/1.1
```

### Pattern 1.1B: Resource without ID

In certain scenarios, it is necessary to access a resource that does not have a traditional identifier named `id`. In such cases, we must determine a unique field, such as `name` or `type`, to include in the URN for reference.

### URN for Accessing ID-less Resource

```json
/{resources}/{resource-type|resource-name}
```

```json
GET /apis/{api-id}/stages/dev HTTP/1.1
```

This example demonstrates accessing a specific stage (`dev`) of an API identified by `{api-id}`, where the stage does not have a traditional `id` but can be uniquely identified by its `name`.

### Guidelines

1. **Unique Field Identification**: Ensure the field chosen (e.g., `name` or `type`) is unique within the context it is used.
2. **Consistency**: Use the same unique field consistently across similar types of resources to avoid confusion.
3. **Clarity**: The chosen field should clearly convey the resource it represents, making the URN easily understandable.

### Pattern 1.2: Nested Resources

**URN for accessing nested resources**:

```bash
/{resources}/{resource-id}/{nested-resources}/{nested-resource-id}
```

```json
GET /users/12345/orders/67890 HTTP/1.1
```

### Pattern 2: Action-Based

In RESTful API design, HTTP POST typically represents `CREATE`. However, many actions do not fit neatly into standard CRUD operations. To address this, actions can be represented using gerunds, maintaining the principle that URNs should not include verbs. These URNs SHOULD always use `POST` as the HTTP method.

**Sample Actions**:

```json
POST /search
POST /users/login
```

### Pattern 3: Resource with Modifier

Modifiers can be used to filter or sort collections. This pattern SHOULD be intuitive and self-explanatory.

**Base URN with modifier**:

```bash
/{resources}/{modifier}
```

```json
GET /songs/recently-played HTTP/1.1
GET /articles/top-rated HTTP/1.1
```
