---
id: 314
title: Resource Identifier
---
# [ADP-314] Resource Identifier

A resource must be unique.

## Guidance

- MUST have an identifier field for a resource.
- SHOULD favor string type over number.
    - Even you choose number as identifier, tag it as string in API document.
- MAY use UUID or ULID for `id` generation.
    
    <aside>
    💡 Sub-resources that are part of a parent resource and cannot exist independently may not have an `id` field. Instead, they would still have a unique field such as `type` or `name`.
    
    </aside>
    
- MAY NOT use incrementing integer as id generation logic.
    
    <aside>
    💡 Using incrementing integers can lead to potential security risks, such as easy predictability of IDs, which can be exploited to access unauthorized resources. Additionally, incrementing integers can cause issues with scalability and uniqueness across distributed systems.
    
    </aside>
    
    <aside>
    💡 However, if the number of resources is guaranteed to be small, using UUIDs might be overkill. The API designer MAY opt for an incrementing number (converted to a string) if there are no security concerns.
    
    </aside>
    
    - An intuitive example of using incrementing number is the task service.
- MUST use URL-friendly identifiers
    - To simplify encoding of resource IDs in URLs they must match the regex **`[a-zA-Z0-9:._\-/]*`**. Resource IDs only consist of ASCII strings using letters, numbers, underscore, minus, colon, period, and - on rare occasions - slash.

## Example

### Primary Resource JSON Representation

```jsx
{
  "id": "123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000",
  "name": "Primary Resource",
  "type": "primary",
  "subResource": {
    "type": "example",
    "name": "Sub Resource"
  }
}
```

### URI Reference

- Primary Resource:

```jsx
GET /resources/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000 HTTP/1.1
```

- Sub-resource within the Primary Resource:

```jsx
GET /resources/123e4567-e89b-12d3-a456-426614174000/sub-resource HTTP/1.1
```
