---
id: 604
title: CloudEvents source
---
# [ADP-604] CloudEvents source

# References

- Original Spec
    
    > from https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/main/cloudevents/spec.md#source-1
    > 
    > 
    > **source**
    > 
    > - Type: `URI-reference`
    > - Description: Identifies the context in which an event happened. Often this will include information such as the type of the event source, the organization publishing the event or the process that produced the event. The exact syntax and semantics behind the data encoded in the URI is defined by the event producer.
    >     
    >     Producers MUST ensure that `source` + `id` is unique for each distinct event.
    >     
    >     An application MAY assign a unique `source` to each distinct producer, which makes it easy to produce unique IDs since no other producer will have the same source. The application MAY use UUIDs, URNs, DNS authorities or an application-specific scheme to create unique `source` identifiers.
    >     
    >     A source MAY include more than one producer. In that case the producers MUST collaborate to ensure that `source` + `id` is unique for each distinct event.
    >     
    > - Constraints:
    >     - REQUIRED
    >     - MUST be a non-empty URI-reference
    >     - An absolute URI is RECOMMENDED
    > - Examples
    >     - Internet-wide unique URI with a DNS authority.
    >         - `https://github.com/cloudevents`
    >         - `mailto:cncf-wg-serverless@lists.cncf.io`
    >     - Universally-unique URN with a UUID:
    >         - `urn:uuid:6e8bc430-9c3a-11d9-9669-0800200c9a66`
    >     - Application-specific identifiers
    >         - `/cloudevents/spec/pull/123`
    >         - `/sensors/tn-1234567/alerts`
    >         - `1-555-123-4567`

## Guidance

- MUST follow convention from cloudevents spec: `source + id` is unique.
- SHOULD use uuid/uri/url/urn for source field and keep the logic for the same application/product.
- SHOULD follow preference: absolute uri > uri reference > urn > uuid
    
    ```json
    {
      "specversion": "1.0",
      "source": "https://api.the-app.com/users/{uuid}"
    }
    ```
    
    - Use absolute uri If the event source has a regular api endpoint
    - Use relative uri if the event source does not have being exposed at specific api endpoint; for example, a resource which is not exposed on specific domain.
        
        ```json
        {
          "specversion": "1.0",
          "source": "//vortexcloud.com/applications/{application-id}
        }
        ```
        
        ```json
        {
          "specversion": "1.0",
          "source": "/users/{uuid}"
        }
        ```
        
    - URN might or might not have a corresponding absolute URL; however, the advantage of a URN is that it provides a programmatic way to identify resources by category. We could always design the URN at first and decide to expose it as API endpoint(URL) or not. See [URN naming convention principle](82.md).
- If the event is about the collection(resources) itself, the source MAY be the collection. Relative events: `created` / `deleted`
    
    ```json
    {
      "specversion": "1.0",
      "type": "com.example.event",
      "source": "/users",
      "id": "A234-1234-1234",
      "time": "2024-07-10T08:42:00Z",
      "datacontenttype": "application/json",
      "data": {
        "message": "New user collection created"
      }
    }
    ```
    
- If the event is about the single resource itself, the resource MAY be the unique resource. Relative events: `updated`
    
    ```json
    {
      "specversion": "1.0",
      "type": "com.example.event",
      "source": "/users/123",
      "id": "A234-1234-1234",
      "time": "2024-07-10T08:42:00Z",
      "datacontenttype": "application/json",
      "data": {
        "message": "User profile updated"
      }
    }
    ```
    

# Design Thinking

- The original spec does not specify which format is preferred. We add a preference to be more descriptive.
