---
id: 351
title: Range Request
state: reviewing
phase: 1
---

# [ADE-351] Range Request

:::tip reviewing phase 1
Isolate Accept-Range to a new ADP
:::

## Overview

Range Requests allow clients to request partial content from a server, which is particularly useful for large resources or resumable downloads.

## Guidance

- Servers SHOULD respond with the `Accept-Ranges` header to inform the client that Range Requests are supported, regardless of whether the client's request includes any Range Request related headers.

    ```http
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Accept-Ranges: bytes
    ```

- Servers MAY send `Accept-Ranges: none` to explicitly indicate that Range Requests are not supported for the requested resource.

- Servers SHOULD honor the `Range` header in requests and return partial responses when supported.
  - Responses SHOULD have an HTTP status of 206 Partial Content in this case.
  - Responses SHOULD include the `Content-Range` header to indicate which ranges are being returned.
  - Responses SHOULD include the `Accept-Ranges` header in this case.

    ```http
    GET /resources/r-id HTTP/1.1
    Range: bytes=0-1023

    HTTP/1.1 206 Partial Content
    Content-Range: bytes 0-1023/146515
    Content-Length: 1024
    Accept-Ranges: bytes
    ```

- Servers SHOULD respond with HTTP status 416 (Range Not Satisfiable) if the requested Range is not satisfiable or the unit is not supported. See [HTTP Headers - Range](137) for more details.

- [DRAFT] Servers SHOULD support the `If-Range` header, which allows clients to make a conditional request for a range. If the entity has not changed since the specified date or ETag, the server should return the requested range. If it has changed, the server should return the entire resource with a 200 OK status.

    ```http
    GET /resources/r-id HTTP/1.1
    If-Range: "etag-value"  // or a date

    HTTP/1.1 206 Partial Content
    Content-Range: bytes 0-1023/146515
    Content-Length: 1024
    Accept-Ranges: bytes
    ```

## Documentation

- Clearly document the support for Range Requests in API specifications.
- Include examples of valid Range Request syntax in API documentation.
- Document any limitations or special considerations for Range Requests in your API.

## Related ADE

- [ADE-137: Range](137)

## References

- [RFC 9110: Range Requests](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110.html#name-range-requests)
- [MDN Web Docs: HTTP Range Requests](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Range_requests)

## Changelog

- `2024.10.01` Add `If-Range`
