---
id: 375
title: Using 'expand' query parameter
state: draft
phase: 1
---

# [ADE-375] Using 'expand' query parameter

## Overview

In some cases, instead of providing the full content of the related resource, we only include an `relatedResourceId` field to inform the client of the related resource's ID. It is necessary to have a mechanism to expand this ID into a complete resource object.

## Guidance

- It is recommended to use `expand` to expand the related resourceId field into a complete resource object.
  :::warning
  Naming the relatedResource field can be challenging. Using `resource-type` does not inherently convey that it represents the `resource-id` by default. Conversely, using `resource-id` might make it difficult to expand into a full resource object. Here, we acknowledge that `resource` could also refer to an id. Alternatively, you MAY establish your own convention, such as:
  
  - Convention 1:
    - `resource`: { `resource-id` : `$ID` } by default
    - `resource`: { FULL_CONTENT } by expand
  - Convention 2:
    1. `resourceId`: `$ID` by default
    2. Remove above and provide `resource`: { FULL_CONTENT } by expand
    
  Either way, it is essential to document this convention clearly.
  :::
- It is optional to use `expand` to include an additional field in the response that is not part of the default response schema.
  - In contrast to [embed](360), `expand` is designed to encompass not only complete resources but also non-resource properties.

## Example

1. **Define the `expand` Parameter**:
   - The API should support an `expand` query parameter that accepts a comma-separated list of resource relationships to expand.

   Example:
   ```
   GET /orders/{orderId}?expand=customer,items
   ```

2. **Return Expanded Resource Objects**:
   - When the `expand` parameter is not used, the API would return the relative resourceId by default.

   Example Response:
   ```json
   {
     "orderId": "12345",
     "customer": "67890",
   }
   ```

   - When the `expand` parameter is used, the API should return the full resource objects for the specified relationships in the response.

   Example Response:
   ```json
   {
     "orderId": "12345",
     "customer": {
       "customerId": "67890",
       "name": "John Doe",
       "email": "john.doe@example.com"
     },
     "items": [
       {
         "orderItemId": "1",
         "productId": "987",
         "productName": "Widget",
         "quantity": 2,
         "price": 25.00
       },
       {
         "orderItemId": "2",
         "productId": "654",
         "productName": "Gadget",
         "quantity": 1,
         "price": 50.00
       }
     ]
   }
   ```

3. **Document the Usage**:
   - Clearly document the `expand` parameter in the API documentation, including examples of how to use it and the expected response format.

## Reference

### Design Reference

- https://docs.digitalriver.com/commerce-api/resources/common-shoppers-and-admin-apis-reference/fields-and-expand-query-parameters
