---
id: 707
title: date-time and time data
---
# [ADP-707] date-time and time data

## Guidance

- All date-time and time values exchanged between clients and servers MUST strictly adhere to the RFC3339 format. This requirement ensures that the date-time representations are unambiguous, consistent, and interoperable across different systems and platforms.
    - All APIs MUST return date-time and time values in RFC3339 format in their responses.
    - All APIs that accept date-time and time inputs MUST accept values in RFC3339 format.
- MAY use format including microsecond on demand

## RFC3339 Format Overview

RFC3339 is a profile of the ISO 8601 standard for date and time representations. It defines a clear and unambiguous format for date-time values, which includes the following components:

1. **Date**: A full-date in the form `YYYY-MM-DD`
2. **Time**: A time of day in the form `hh:mm:ss`
3. **Time Zone**: A time-offset from UTC in the form `±hh:mm` or the literal `Z` for UTC

### Example

An example of an RFC3339 date-time string is:

```makefile
2024-07-13T14:23:55Z
```

This represents the 13th of July, 2024 at 14:23:55 UTC.

### Detailed Breakdown

- **Date**: `2024-07-13`
- **Time**: `14:23:55`
- **Time Zone**: `Z` (UTC)

### Optional Fractional Seconds

RFC3339 allows for the optional inclusion of fractional seconds to a precision of up to nanoseconds. An example with milliseconds:

```makefile
2024-07-13T14:23:55.123Z
```

### Time Zone Offsets

When specifying a time zone offset, it is crucial to include the offset in hours and minutes:

```makefile
2024-07-13T14:23:55+02:00
```

This represents the 13th of July, 2024 at 14:23:55 with a two-hour offset ahead of UTC.

## Implementation Detail

### Data Storage

- Internally, date-time and time values SHOULD be stored in a format that preserves the precision and timezone information as per RFC3339.
- Conversions between storage formats and RFC3339 SHOULD maintain accuracy and precision.

### Libraries and Tools

- Developers SHOULD utilize libraries and tools that support RFC3339 formatting and parsing to avoid manual errors.
- It is RECOMMENDED to validate date-time inputs against the RFC3339 standard to ensure compliance.
